The Guess the Number Game is a condition game of "If or Else" with javascript. The user has to guess a number that is randomly generated by the javascript and throws an alert according to the actions.

It Only accepts numeric inputs or throws an alert to the user, Also user can't input less than 0 or greater than 100 numbers in the input.

You will win when you guessed the right number generated by the javascript, and play again by clicking the button.

So let's begin.

Here's how the raw part looks, Skipping the CSS part to quickly start the project. Copy CSS Code from GitHub linked in the description.

The Pop-up message is not working because I used class instead of Id to the message box in HTML, fix this before we begin with the javascript part.


The random Number will be set every time the function runs the generate random number function.

Math dot random will return any number between 0 and 1 with decimal, so multiplying with 100 returns a random number between 1 to 100.

Let's see the number generated.

Now adding a click event listener to the submit button to accept the number from the user by input element.

The Parseint will convert the string number into a pure number, console log the result to understand. If not in use it returns a string Number.

Now, a condition to validate if the value of the input is a number or not.

The throw alert function is the message pop-up element. It has one parameter of a message to show in the alert.
The logic is, to create a p element and set its inner Text to the parameter received as a message and append it to message container.

Now, let's test this validation.
HEHE!.

Ohh k, works great.

Adding conditions for the input that value must be greater than 0 and less than 100.

Here, if condition is to throw an alert if the predicted number is less than or greater than the random number.

Now when the user wins, display the won div and hide the input element.

The is game over variable is used to get the current status of the game, as the user wins the is game over will be set to true, and this if condition will further go into action.

This button didn't work because I forgot to set the is game over to true.

The generate random number function is called to set a new random number and restart the game.

It would give a better an experience with an audio to play when the user wins. All source code with audio is linked in the description with the GitHub repository.

The input value must be cleared once submitted.

Now, a simple part is to increase chances when input is submitted.

Fix this, please.

It feels annoying to press the submit button every time with the mouse, so, to make the UX easy add a key-down event listener to the window.

Now you can press enter button instead of clicking submit button with the mouse.

Here I forgot to change the inner text of the chance element.

Oh, Here we are done with our Guess the Number game project, Thanks for being in the video. Let's move on to a new project.